---
title: 'My Journey and My Future Plan'
date: 2024-09-22
permalink: /posts/2024/09/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - A slice of me
---

Hello readers! This is my first blog post. I don't know where to start, the idea of creating my own website was in my mind for longtime now. As you might have read I am an AI Research Engineer. It is been three years now since i started working on AI (sept - 2022). I learned queit a lot in AI. I studied Aerospace in my Bachelore and also in my Masters, during my Master degree i attended a micro credit course in AI by a professor [Girish Chowdary](https://ece.illinois.edu/about/directory/faculty/girishc) from [University of Illinois](https://illinois.edu/), in which he taught a wealthy of information in a brief AI course. Through which i learned a huge deal of AI and i got inclined my career interest towards AI. The most important aspect of AI which fascinated me was it's design is very close to how human brain thinks, saves memory using neurons. After learning about them i clearly understood it is going to be the single most important breakthrough in this time period, i believe in quantum computing will surpass what AI could provide but it will take time, untill then it is a fascinating technology. Even so i could not think at the pace it is developing, it is tremendous.

When i started my career, i was working mostly on computer vision, and was building on-prem computer vision models and tools and deploy them in cloud for the web apps. Slowly i got exposed to Natural language Processing, and i was albe to witness the change of pace of NLP development because of the introduction of a beautiful model called Transformers. It was a game changer at that time, but was not implemented in Computer vision yet. The difference from the previous models to Transformers that i felt was that i allows user to train it with big data, suddenly dataset size matters, which was not the case before, the model will not improve much after certain size of the dataset.

In our company after vision transformer models came, we tried different Transformers techniques to be combined with Convolution Neural Networks to improve the model efficiency. And even observed improvements. During that time we were working on a no-code platform for the non AI users to use AI, train their dataset, with just minimal config changes and observe the result, utilize the model for real time use cases. But it was not understood or trusted by many people as it was very new technology and very complicated to understand. People refer this technology as a Black Box, as the results it provides are not mathematically solvable.

Suddenly, in 2 years the AI boom hits the public. The trust in AI also builds up trementously as it delivers, solves complex problems easily. Just like how calculators made calculation faster, AI is making many things faster and easier. People started worrying about losing their jobs, some just looking at every new things comes up with Awe including me. I am really fascinated by the technology. I felt other than just working in a company, develop products, deliver their needs. I thought i should build something which excites me. I have an idea in my mind for some time now, but was not making time to execute it. It is a web app design, heavily relying on AI, but also includes all other things things required to build an app. From UX design, UI tools, Database management, cloud for deployement, and some backend design and ofcourse AI as the heart of the tool. I don't have any engineers. I am going to become the one and only developer to develop this exciting project. How is it goping to be possible ?! It is possib;e in the era of AI. I know i can rely on AI. I am going to learn all the tools required to build the technology but not deep, because i am going to use AI's help to design most part of it, i will mostly orchestrate in this endeavour. Fingers crossed, let's hope for the best to get a beautiful design.

This is the first step for the future endeavour. I am going to record my every learning which takes me closer to build this product. And also going to learn to drive the AI to make it for me, Lead it to the future. I feel that is how every projects are going to happen in the future, wherever required we can use this beast called AI which can think for us at the places we want them to and stop them think at the moment where we want us to think. Remember calculaters just made our calculations faster, doesn't replace us. They are made for us.

